To understand why OCP matters today,
you have to go back to the critical point that started it all.
In 2010,
the rise of mobile computing,
social media,
and cloud storage caused internet traffic to explode.
But the hardware powering it was stuck in the past.
In 2011,
Meta,
formerly Facebook,
hit a wall.
They were growing so fast that traditional data
center technology literally could not keep up.
They weren't just running out of space,
they were burning power on things that didn't matter.
At the time,
every server was a black box.
Proprietary designs,
gratuitous plastic bezels,
logos that blocked airflow,
and power supplies that were horribly inefficient.
If they wanted the scale,
rules had to be broken.
So,
a small team of engineers at Facebook asked a radical question.
What if we designed a data center like a single giant computer?
What
if we stripped away the vanity
and focused only on efficiency?
That question
launched the Open Compute Project or OCP.
OCP took the schematics for the most efficient server in the world,
and we didn't patent them,
we published them.
We invited the world to hack our hardware.
The result was the vanityre server.
We removed the plastic,
we centralized the power,
we optimize the airflow.
It wasn't just cheaper to build,
it was 38% more efficient
and 24% less expensive to run.
This model works so well for a reason.
The hyper scales run into the physical
limits of IT infrastructure years before anyone else
because of their size,
scale operations,
and relentless performing demands.
Also,
by solving these extreme scaling challenges with
the industry and an open mindset first
and then publishing those blueprints,
we hand those engineer solutions directly to the rest of the market,
accelerating adoption
and driving new industry benchmarks.
OCP is not a standards body itself,
but by the nature of its open innovation engine,
it supports and contributes to standardization.
Today,
OCP isn't just for hyper scales,
it's a $132 billion ecosystem.
From the co-location facility down the street
to the edge of the telecom network,
open hardware is the standard for high performance computing.
But this isn't just history.
With the rise of AI
and heat dense workloads,
the principles we established in 2011.
Efficiency,
openness,
impact,
skill,
and sustainability are the only way we will survive the next decade.
So welcome to the community.
Let's take a look at the specs.